[ADD] Expenses: Expense categories (#14995)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/expenses/expense_categories.rst

==================
Expense categories
==================

Odoo **Expenses** streamlines the management of expenses. After an employee :doc:`logs their
expenses <../expenses/log_expenses>` and :doc:`submits their expense report
<../expenses/expense_reports>` in Odoo, expenses are reviewed by management and accounting teams.

> Once :doc:`approved <../expenses/approve_expenses>`, payments can then be processed and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once :doc:`approved <../expenses/approve_expenses>`, payments can be processed and
```

:doc:`disbursed back to the employee <../expenses/reimburse>` for reimbursement.

.. seealso::
   `Odoo Expenses: product page <https://www.odoo.com/app/expenses>`_

View expense categories
=======================

The first step to track expenses is configuring the different types of expenses for the company
(managed as *expense categories* in Odoo). Each category can be as specific or generalized as
needed. Additionally, expense categories can be configured to repay expenses at either a set price
or allow for specific prices to be reported.

To view the default expense categories, navigate to :menuselection:`Expenses app --> Configuration
--> Expense Categories`.

The default expense categories allow creating expenses for common expenses, including communication
costs, meals, gifts, miles drive, and other travel expenses. For expenses outside these default
categories, the general expenses category, :guilabel:`EXP_GEN`, is used. If a company has specific

> expenses they commonly reimburse, and want to track them separately, :ref:`new expense categories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expenses it commonly reimburses, and wants to track separately, :ref:`new expense categories
```

     :guilabel:`Sales Price` field is *only* visible if the :guilabel:`Sales Price` is selected
     under the :guilabel:`Re-Invoice Expenses` section. Otherwise, the :guilabel:`Sales Price` field
     is hidden.

- :guilabel:`Reference`: Enter a short reference for the expense, such as `FOOD` or `TRAVEL`. This
  reference is used when :ref:`emailing expenses <expenses/email_expense>`.
- :guilabel:`Category`: Using the drop-down menu, select the category the expense falls under. It is
  recommended to use the default category `All / Expenses`, but another category can be selected if
  the accounting department requires it.
- :guilabel:`Company`: If in a multi-company database, select the company the expense category
  applies to. If the expense category applies to *all* companies, leave this field blank.
- :guilabel:`Guideline`: Enter some rules or important information for the expense category. This is
  visible in the :guilabel:`Note` column on the :guilabel:`Expense Category` dashboard.

  .. example::
     An expense category for expenses related to working from home may have a :guilabel:`Name` of

>      `WFH` and the :guilabel:`Guideline` may say `Monitors, Chairs, & Other Home Working Costs`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     `WFH`, and the :guilabel:`Guideline` may say `Monitors, Chairs, & Other Home Working Costs`.
```

- :guilabel:`Expense Account`: If using the Odoo **Accounting** app, select the :abbr:`CoA (Chart of
  Accounts)` the expense should be logged on.

  .. important::
     Check with the accounting department to determine the correct account to reference in this
     field as it affects various reports.

- :guilabel:`Purchase Taxes` and :guilabel:`Sales Taxes`: Enter the default taxes that are applied
  when purchasing or selling this product, if applicable.

  .. note::
     The :guilabel:`Sales Taxes` field is **only** visible if the **Sales** app is installed, and
     either the :guilabel:`At cost` or :guilabel:`Sales Price` options are selected in the
     :ref:`invoicing section <expenses/invoicing>`.

  .. tip::
     It is considered good practice to use a tax that is configured with :ref:`Tax Included in Price
     <taxes/included-in-price>`. Taxes are automatically configured if these are set.

.. image:: expense_categories/new-expense-category.png
   :alt: A new expense category for tools.

.. _expenses/invoicing:

Invoicing section
-----------------

If the **Sales** app is installed, an invoicing section is visible. This section allows the expense

> to be re-invoiced to customers on sales orders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to be reinvoiced to customers on sales orders.
```

If the expense **cannot** be reinvoiced, enable the :guilabel:`No` option. If the expense category
**can** be reinvoiced, enable either of these options:

- :guilabel:`At cost`: Select this option to have the expense item reinvoiced at the price set in
  the :guilabel:`Cost` field.
- :guilabel:`Sales Price`: Select this option to have the expense item reinvoiced at the sales
  price. When enabled, a :guilabel:`Sales Price` field appears beneath the :guilabel:`Product Name`
  field. Enter the sales price in the new field.

.. example::
   A heating and cooling company offers at-home repairs on the furnaces and central air units it
   sells. Their technicians are sub-contracted, and use their own vans, tools, and parts.

   As part of their contracts, the technicians are reimbursed for their travel. They receive $1.00

>    for every mile they drive. Additionally, the cusotmer must pay for the travel as part of their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   for every mile they drive. Additionally, the customer must pay for the travel as part of their
```

>    service contract. The cusotmer pays $1.50 for every mile the technician drives to their location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   service contract. The customer pays $1.50 for every mile the technician drives to their location.
```
